Australia's very well known for its
snakes it's one of the few places in the
world where you have more venomous
snakes than you have non-venomous ones
and to someone like me that's incredibly
exciting most of the most venomous land
snakes in the world are found right here
and in particular one the inland Taipan
or fierce snake which is known as being
the most venomous on the planet it's
said that one single bite from this
snake could kill as many as 250,000 mice
which is just the insane thought
especially considering that they're only
going to eat one my sized rodent all
marsupial per meal the idea though is
that they live in a very very arid very
hot desert and they feed and little
burrows and cracks and crevices the
small animals that they feed on they
bite them and they release them and they
can run away obviously if the venom
wasn't that strong this Mysore Road
until marsupial could run for hundreds
of metres before it died and the snake
would have very very little chance of
following it to find a meal so instead
it has this incredibly ultra uber toxic
venom that kills almost instantaneously
so the snake can wriggle into the Burrow
it can bite a rat and the rat will be
dead within minutes the snake can then
follow the scent trail and eat the rat
alive but not live obviously it's dead
because it's been overpowered by the
venom I never thought I'd really be able
to see an inland Taipan in the wild
it's not a very common snake it's a
snake that lives a long way away from
people and they're very very elusive
very hard to track down in fact I didn't
know a single
Herbet ologist that is a reptile
scientist who had ever seen one in the
wild however I thought it had to be
worth a crack so we headed up to
Queensland went way way inland several
hundred kilometres inland to a dried-up
lakebed which looked absolutely perfect
inland Taipan habits
very first thing in the morning we went
out driving our four-wheel drive and we
were using the roads as our sort of
target to find the snakes so first thing
in the morning you have a hot spot of
about two hours when it hasn't got too
hot but the road is warming up faster
than the outside environment and snakes
will come up onto the tarmac to bask to
gain energy for the rest of the day so
we're driving up and down this road just
hoping that it wouldn't get too hot and
send the snakes just slithering away for
cover and after several hours all of a
sudden there it was this beautiful to
meet a long bright yellow snake lying on
the side of the road I had kind of
thought that I'd go in I've had to grab
it and catch it because it would
obviously stop her and try to get as far
away from us as possible but instead it
just sat there completely calm and let
me sit behind it and talk about it
before it finally wriggled off to start
hunting getting that close to the most
venomous snake on the planet this
gorgeous golden scaled creature and was
one of the most special snake encounters
I've ever had in my life and that's
saying something